>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SUNDAY, APRIL 3:
BRUSSELS RE-OPENS ITS AIRPORT 12
DAYS AFTER TERRORISTS ATTACKED
IT.
HOW MIGRANTS AND REFUGEES HELP
KEEP ONE SMALL ITALIAN TOWN
ALIVE.
AND, THE PASSION OF SINGER-
SONGWRITER LUCINDA WILLIAMS.
NEXT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
>>FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS
AT LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING AND
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
THE AIRPORT IN BRUSSELS,
BELGIUM, HAS REOPENED, ALMOST
TWO WEEKS AFTER ISIS SUICIDE
BOMBERS KILLED 32 PEOPLE THERE
AND AT A BRUSSELS SUBWAY STOP.
A SMALL CROWD HELD A MINUTE OF
SILENCE BEFORE THE FIRST FLIGHT
TOOK OFF.
THERE WERE ONLY THREE DEPARTURES
AND ARRIVALS TODAY, BUT
OFFICIALS SAID THE AIRPORT
SHOULD BE UP TO 20% CAPACITY BY
TOMORROW AND FULL CAPACITY BY
THE END OF JUNE.
>> WE ARE TURNING A PAGE, A PAGE
FULL OF BLOOD, BUT WE HAVE TO
REBUILD THIS AIRPORT, AND WE
WILL DO SO.
>> Sreenivasan: UNDER TIGHTER
SECURITY MEASURES, PASSENGERS
ARE NOT ALLOWED TO ENTER THE
CHECK-IN AREA BEFORE HAVING
THEIR BAGGAGE INSPECTED, AND
POLICE ARE CONDUCTING RANDOM
CHECKS OF ALL ARRIVING VEHICLES.
ONE WEEK AFTER SYRIAN GOVERNMENT
TROOPS RECAPTURED THE KEY CITY
OF PALMYRA FROM ISIS MILITANTS,
THE SYRIAN ARMY IS CLAIMING
ANOTHER VICTORY.
BACKED BY RUSSIAN AIR STRIKES,
THE ARMY SAID TODAY IT HAS
DRIVEN ISIS OUT OF AL-QARYATAIN,
A CENTRAL SYRIAN CITY OF 40,000
PEOPLE THAT LIES BETWEEN PALMYRA
AND SYRIA'S CAPITAL, DAMASCUS.
SYRIAN SOLDIERS NOW OCCUPYING
PALMYRA HAVE FOUND A MASS GRAVE
CONTAINING AT LEAST 45 BODIES
BELIEVED TO BE BOTH CIVILIANS
AND AND SOLDIERS.
HERE IN THE U.S., AMTRAK SERVICE
ON THE BUSY NORTHEAST CORRIDOR
HAS RESUMED FOLLOWING A DEADLY
ACCIDENT IN CHESTER,
PENNSYLVANIA, 15 MILES SOUTH OF
PHILADELPHIA.
AMTRAK'S PALMETTO TRAIN, BOUND
FOR SAVANNAH, GEORGIA, WAS
CARRYING 341 PASSENGERS AND
SEVEN CREW WHEN IT STRUCK A
BACKHOE LEFT ON THE TRACKS,
CAUSING THE LOCOMOTIVE TO
DERAIL.
OFFICIALS SAY TWO AMTRAK WORKERS
ON OR NEAR THE BACKHOE WERE
KILLED
35 PASSENGERS WERE TREATED FOR
INJURIES AT LOCAL HOSPITALS.
NONE WAS CONSIDERED LIFE
THREATENING.
TURNING TO THE PRESIDENTIAL
RACE, REPUBLICAN FRONTRUNNER
DONALD TRUMP SAID TODAY HE WOULD
NOT RULE OUT AN INDEPENDENT RUN,
IF HE WINS THE MOST VOTES AND
DELEGATES IN THE PRIMARIES BUT
DOES NOT SECURE THE PARTY'S
NOMINATION.
>> I WANT TO RUN AS A
REPUBLICAN.
I WILL BEAT HILLARY CLINTON.
>> BUT IF YOU DON'T GET THE
NOMINATION?
>> WE'RE GOING TO HAVE TO SEE
HOW I WAS TREATED.
I'M GOING TO HAVE TO SEE HOW I
WAS TREATED.
VERY SIMPLE.
>> Sreenivasan: SETTING HER
SIGHTS ON TRUMP, DEMOCRATIC
FRONTRUNNER HILLARY CLINTON
TODAY CRITICIZED HIM FOR HIS
RHETORIC AND HIS SUPPORTERS'
BEHAVIOR AT RALLIES.
>> WHEN YOU INCITE VIOLENCE, YOU
ARE ACTING LIKE A POLITICAL
ARSONIST, AND I WANT PEOPLE TO
UNDERSTAND THERE'S A VERY
DIFFERENT WAY OF WORKING TOWARD
OUR COMMON GROUND.
>> Sreenivasan: VERMONT SENATOR
BERNIE SANDERS TODAY SAID HE
WOULD HAVE A BETTER CHANCE OF
BEATING TRUMP IN NOVEMBER.
>> I BELIEVE I AM THE STRONGEST
CANDIDATE TO TAKE ON THE
REPUBLICANS, AND THE FACT THAT I
HAVE BEEN THE LONGEST SERVING
INDEPENDENT IN THE HISTORY OF
THE UNITED STATES MAKES MY
CANDIDACY EVEN STRONGER.
>> Sreenivasan: BOTH PARTIES
HOLD PRIMARIES IN WISCONSIN ON
TUESDAY.
LEARN WHAT EXPERTS HAVE TO SAY
ABOUT SECURITY CONCERNS AT
NUCLEAR FACILITIES AROUND THE
WORLD.
READ OUR REPORT ONLINE AT
pbs.org/newshour.
>> Sreenivasan: STARTING
TOMORROW, THE EUROPEAN UNION
PLANS TO START SENDING BACK SOME
OF THE 170,000 MIGRANTS AND
REFUGEES WHO HAVE MADE THE
DANGEROUS JOURNEY BY SEA TO
EUROPE THIS YEAR.
SOME MIGRANTS WHO'VE ARRIVED
SINCE MARCH 20, PARTICULARLY
SYRIANS WHO CROSSED FROM TURKEY
ACROSS THE AEGEAN SEA TO GREECE,
ARE ELIGIBLE TO BE SENT TO
REFUGEE CAMPS IN TURKEY.
BORDER CLOSINGS AND THE GRADUAL
LIFTING OF THE WELCOME MAT
REFLECTS FRUSTRATION BY
EUROPEANS AND THEIR POLITICAL
LEADERS WHO DOUBT WHETHER THE
CONTINENT CAN CONTINUE TO HOUSE,
FEED, EMPLOY, AND INTEGRATE
THESE STRANDED NEW ARRIVALS.
ALONG THE OTHER, MAIN MIGRANT
SEA ROUTE, FROM NORTH AFRICA
TOWARD ITALY, ONE SMALL TOWN HAS
A VERY DIFFERENT, FRIENDLY
POSTURE TOWARD MIGRANTS AND
REFUGEES.
THE TOWN IS CALLED RIACE, AND
FOR TONIGHT'S SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT,
CHRISTOPHER LIVESAY, WENT THERE
TO BRING US THIS STORY.
>> Reporter: IT'S A SHORT, 10
MINUTE DRIVE UP THE COAST IN
ITALY'S SOUTHERNMOST REGION OF
CALABRIA, TO THE HILLTOP TOWN OF
RIACE.
AT FIRST GLANCE, IT SEEMS
TYPICAL OF A TOWN DATING BACK TO
MEDIEVAL TIMES.
THERE ARE NARROW, WINDING
STREETS AND A 16TH-CENTURY
CHURCH IN THE MAIN SQUARE.
MEN PASS THE TIME, AS THEY HAVE
FOR GENERATIONS, PLAYING CARDS.
BUT THERE'S SOMETHING VERY
ATYPICAL ABOUT RIACE THESE DAYS.
WHILE MUCH OF EUROPE IS REACTING
WARILY TO MIGRANTS AND REFUGEES
FROM THE MIDDLE EAST, SOUTH
ASIA, AND AFRICA, RIACE WELCOMES
THEM, WITH A SMILE.
>> HEY BON GIORNO.
>> Reporter: DANIEL YABOAH IS
ORIGINALLY FROM GHANA.
>> I'VE KNOWN HIM FOR MANY
YEARS, THIS WOMAN SAYS.
HIS CHILDREN WERE BORN HERE.
>> Reporter: A FAMILIAR FACE
HERE IN RIACE, YABOAH GOES HOUSE
TO HOUSE COLLECTING TRASH AND
RECYCLABLES ALONG WITH HIS
TRUSTY DONKEY.
HE'S BEEN HERE 7.5 YEARS.
HE SAYS HE WAS FORCED TO FLEE
DEATH THREATS IN GHANA AFTER HIS
WIFE CONVERTED FOR HIM FROM
ISLAM TO CHRISTIANITY.
YOU HAVE A LIFE HERE?
>> YES, OF COURSE.
WE HAVE A LIFE HERE, AND THE
PEOPLE HERE, GIVE US A CHANCE TO
FEEL LIKE HOME, YOU KNOW.
THE PEOPLE HERE, THEY ARE USED
TO FOREIGNERS, THEY ARE USED TO
WELCOME EVERYBODY HERE.
I'M VERY HAPPY I'M HERE NOW.
>> Reporter: THIS COUPLE, JASMIN
AND SHAHID, ARRIVED TO RIACE
WITH THEIR DAUGHTER IN NOVEMBER.
JASMIN SAYS THEY FLED PAKISTAN,
BECAUSE HER LIFE WAS THREATENED
BY GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS.
THE FAMILY WAS BOUNCED AROUND
MIGRANT CAMPS ELSEWHERE IN
EUROPE FOR MONTHS, UNTIL A
KNOWING CAMP ORGANIZER GOT THEM
TRANSFERRED.
>> Reporter: WHY DID THEY MOVE
YOU TO RIACE?
>> THEY SAY IT'S A GOOD PLACE
FOR THE FAMILY.
IT'S DIFFERENT.
NOBODY IS CALLING US EVERY DAY,
'YOU HAVE TO GO BACK,' AND THIS
AND THAT.
WE ARE ENJOYING GOING TO SCHOOL
WITH OUR CHILDREN.
WE ARE THINKING ABOUT OUR
PROBLEMS ALSO, BUT YES, YOU CAN
SAY WE ARE FREE NOW.
>> Reporter: MORE THAN JUST A
HANDFUL OF REFUGEES LIVE HERE.
OF RIACE'S 1,800 RESIDENTS,
ABOUT 400, OR 22 PERCENT, ARE
NON-ITALIANS FROM MORE THAN 20
DIFFERENT COUNTRIES, A FACT
PROUDLY DISPLAYED ON WELCOME
SIGNS.
>> THEY ARE FROM AFGHANISTAN,
PAKISTAN, SOMALIA, SYRIA.
EVERY PART OF THE WORLD!
>> VENGO DALLA, SYRIA.
>> VENGO DAL PAKISTAN.
>> IL MIO NOME E MOHAMED, VENGO
DALLA SOMALIA.
>> Reporter: HEARING THIS NEXT
GENERATION LEARNING ITALIAN, AND
THEIR PARENTS AS WELL, IS MUSIC
TO THE EARS OF RIACE'S MAYOR
SINCE 2004, DOMENICO LUCANO.
>> ALBANIA!
>> Reporter: OVER THERE IS AN
ALBANIAN FAMILY.
OVER THERE IS A PAKISTANI
FAMILY.
THERE, AN AFGHAN FAMILY.
THIS IS A TAVERN THAT WE BROUGHT
BACK TO LIFE.
WE'RE ALL ABOUT RENOVATION AND
GIVING BACK HOPE.
>> Reporter: FOR MAYOR LUCANO,
HELPING REFUGEES SETTLE HERE IS
NOT JUST THE RIGHT THING TO DO,
IT'S PRACTICAL.
>> Reporter: WHAT WOULD THE TOWN
BE LIKE WITHOUT REFUGEES RIGHT
NOW?
>> SIMPLY PUT, RIACE WOULD NO
LONGER EXIST.
>> Reporter: THAT'S BECAUSE BY
THE 1990'S THIS ONCE THRIVING
TOWN OF 2,500 PEOPLE WAS
BECOMING A GHOST TOWN.
SUFFERING THE FATE OF SO MANY
SMALL OLD TOWNS IN EUROPE.
ITS POPULATION HAD DROPPED
ALMOST IN HALF, AS YOUNG PEOPLE
MOVED AWAY TO FIND JOBS IN
CITIES AND LEFT BEHIND EMPTY
HOUSES AND SHUTTERED BUSINESSES.
THE ONE PUBLIC ELEMENTARY SCHOOL
ALMOST CLOSED.
THEN, ONE DAY IN 1998, FATE
SAILED IN.
>> (translated): A SAILBOAT
WASHED UP ON THE BEACH OF RIACE.
THE PEOPLE ABOARD WERE KURDS
FROM IRAQ AND TURKEY.
FOR ME AND FOR OTHERS, IT WAS A
SIGN.
>> Reporter: BAHRAM ACAR WAS
AMONG THE 200 KURDISH REFUGEES
CRAMMED ON THE BOAT, DRIFTING
ACROSS THE MEDITERRANEAN SEA.
>> (TRANSLATED): WE RAN OUT
OF FOOD.
WE RAN OUT OF WATER.
IT WAS GETTING TOO HOT.
THE BOAT WAS SMALL, AND AT TIMES
WE WERE TAKING ON WATER.
I SLEPT FOR THREE DAYS LIKE THIS
WITH WATER TO MY KNEES.
>> Reporter: DURING THEIR EIGHTH
NIGHT AT SEA, THE BOAT WASHED UP
ON THE BEACH IN RIACE.
THE RED CROSS CAME IMMEDIATELY
TO HELP, PEOPLE FROM THE TOWN,
PRIESTS.
EVERYONE WAS RUNNING TO HELP.
I LIKED HOW WHEN THE SUN CAME
UP, I SAW THAT THE GEOGRAPHY
WAS LIKE A SECOND KURDISTAN.
I SAID, "I'M NOT GOING ANYWHERE.
I WANT TO STAY HERE."
>> Reporter: ACAR HAS LIVED HERE
EVER SINCE, BECOMING FLUENT IN
ITALIAN, RAISING A FAMILY AND
WORKING IN CONSTRUCTION.
THAT BOATLOAD OF KURDISH
REFUGEES 18 YEARS AGO WAS ALSO A
"EUREKA" MOMENT FOR MAYOR
LUCANO.
RATHER THAN SEEING THEM AS A
THREAT OR A DISRUPTOR, HE SAW
THEM AS THE TOWN'S FUTURE, AN
OPPORTUNITY.
YOUNG REFUGEES IN SEARCH OF
BETTER LIVES NEEDED HOMES, AND
RIACE HAD HUNDREDS OF EMPTY ONES
TO FILL.
>> (translated): EVEN IF
YOU'RE HERE BY YOURSELF, YOU GET
YOUR OWN HOUSE.
BECAUSE THIS IS THE STRATEGY
THAT WE LAUNCHED FROM THE
BEGINNING.
THE WHOLE TOWN IS A MIGRANT
CENTER.
>> Reporter: NOT ONLY WOULD
REFUGEES GET THEIR OWN HOMES TO
LIVE IN, LUCANO STARTED A
PROGRAM TO TRANSFORM OTHER
ABANDONED HOUSES INTO ALL TYPES
OF ARTISTIC WORKSHOPS, GIVING
REFUGEES SKILLS TO HELP THEM
INDEPENDENTLY EARN A LIVING.
MIGRANTS AND REFUGEES HAVE ALSO
FOUND WORK IN THE MAYOR'S OFFICE
AND OTHER MUNICIPAL JOBS.
OF COURSE, IT TAKES MONEY TO
MAKE ALL THIS HAPPEN.
THE ITALIAN NATIONAL GOVERNMENT
SUBSIDIZES RIACE AND TOWNS LIKE
IT THE EQUIVALENT OF 30 DOLLARS
A DAY FOR EVERY REFUGEE FOR ONE
YEAR.
RIACE USES THE FUNDS TO RENOVATE
HOMES, HELP MIGRANTS START NEW
BUSINESSES, AND PAY THEM A
MONTHLY STIPEND.
THE MONEY ALSO HELPS RIACE
REBUILD ITSELF.
THIS RAVINE, FOR INSTANCE, HAD
DECAYED INTO SAND AND DIRT.
MIGRANT AND LOCAL LABOR IS
RESTORING IT AS A PLACE FOR
LIVESTOCK AND RECREATION.
>> SO WHERE YOU SEE THE DONKEYS,
THOSE DONKEYS ARE USED TO
COLLECT TRASH, SPECIFICALLY
RECYCLING GARBAGE.
YOU'LL NOTICE IT'S A CLEAN TOWN.
BELOW THAT, IN EACH OF THESE
STABLES, THAT ARE STILL UNDER
CONSTRUCTION YOU'LL HAVE MORE
AND MORE LIVESTOCK."
>> Reporter: OVER TIME, SEEING
RESULTS LIKE THIS HELPED
PERSUADE SKEPTICAL TOWNSPEOPLE
THAT WELCOMING MIGRANTS IS WORTH
IT.
THIS WOMAN SAYS: "RIACE HAS
CHANGED FOR THE BETTER."
AND THIS CONVENIENCE STORE
MANAGER SAYS HE WOULD NOT BE
OPEN TODAY, IF IT WEREN'T FOR
ALL THE PURCHASES MADE BY
REFUGEES.
INCLUDING AN INFLUX OF A
THOUSAND REFUGEES LAST YEAR, THE
MAYOR ESTIMATES BETWEEN SEVEN
AND EIGHT THOUSAND HAVE COME
THROUGH RIACE SINCE THE LATE
'90s.
MOST HAVE CHOSEN TO STAY FOR
ONLY A SHORT TIME, EVENTUALLY
HEADING TO NORTHERN EUROPE,
WHERE THEY MAY HAVE FRIENDS OR
FAMILY OR PERCEIVE BETTER
PROSPECTS.
BUT THE HUNDREDS WHO HAVE STAYED
FOR GOOD FIND BENEFITS AND
SYMPATHY.
RIACE IS HOSTING A PARTICULAR
GROUP OF PEOPLE, NOT PEOPLE WHO
COME FOR ECONOMIC REASONS,
BECAUSE THE LOCALS FROM RIACE
ARE LEAVING FOR ECONOMIC
REASONS.
THE PEOPLE COMING HERE ARE FROM
PARTS OF THE WORLD THAT ARE AT
WAR.
WHEN THEY SAY THAT MIGRANTS
BRING NOTHING BUT TROUBLE, LOOK
WHAT BEAUTIFUL THINGS SHE
BRINGS.
THIS WOMAN, AADELA, HAS A JOB AS
A WEAVER THAT PAYS ABOUT 800
DOLLARS A MONTH.
SHE SAYS SHE FLED AFGHANISTAN
AFTER THE TALIBAN KILLED HER
HUSBAND, A BOOKSELLER IN KABUL.
SHE AND HER DAUGHTER ENDURED AN
18 MONTH JOURNEY BY FOOT AND BY
BUS TO A REFUGEE CAMP IN GREECE,
WHERE AADELA MET A MAN WHO
JOINED THEIR JOURNEY.
THEY'RE MARRIED NOW AND HAVE
BEEN IN RIACE SINCE DECEMBER,
LIVING IN THIS COMFORTABLE HOUSE
PROVIDED BY THE TOWN.
>> (translated): I'M SORRY
FOR THE PEOPLE WHO COME BY SEA,
THOSE WHO MAKE IT AND THOSE WHO
DON'T.
WHENEVER I SEE THEM ON TV, I'M
SHOCKED.
I ALWAYS CRY AND ASK GOD TO
HELP.
HELP THEM ALL.
>> Reporter: DESPITE THE MAYOR'S
BEST EFFORTS TO ACCOMMODATE
MIGRANTS, SOMETIMES HE FALLS
SHORT.
THESE MEN CAME FROM NIGERIA WITH
THEIR WIVES AND CHILDREN.
"LUCKY" HAS BEEN HERE SINCE THE
FALL OF 2014.
HE HAS A TWO YEAR RESIDENCE
PERMIT.
>> THIS ONE IS MY RESIDENCE.
>> Reporter: A PLACE TO LIVE,
AND A 200 DOLLAR A MONTH STIPEND
FOR EACH MEMBER OF HIS FAMILY.
BUT NEITHER LUCKY NOR HIS FRIEND
NEOSA.
>> THIS IS OF MY BABY.
>> Reporter: HAVE BEEN ABLE TO
FIND STEADY WORK.
>> THE BIGGEST PROBLEM WE HAVE
HERE IS A JOB.
A FAMILY MAN CANNOT LIVE WITHOUT
NO JOB.
I NEED TO WORK.
THAT IS THE PROBLEM I'M CRYING
FOR.
>> Reporter: I ASKED THE MAYOR
WHAT WOULD HAPPEN TO THOSE
NIGERIAN MEN.
>> (translated): WITH RESPECT
TO ALL THE MIGRANTS WE WELCOME
HERE, WE DON'T HAVE THE
RESOURCES TO FIND WORK FOR EVERY
ONE OF THEM.
BUT WHAT I CAN SAY IS THAT NO
ONE HAS EVER LEFT BECAUSE THEIR
TEMPORARY JOB CAME TO AN END.
NO ONE HAS LEFT BECAUSE THE
STATE HAS TOLD US THAT THESE
PEOPLE NEED TO LEAVE.
THAT'S NEVER HAPPENED.
MAYOR LUCANO SAYS RIACE WILL
CONTINUE HELPING AS MANY
REFUGEES AS IT CAN, AND HE HOPES
TO INSPIRE OTHER EUROPEAN
COMMUNITIES TO OPEN THEIR ARMS
TOO.
TO PEOPLE LIKE AADELA, AND
BAHRAM ACAR, PEOPLE CAUGHT IN
MODERN CONFLICTS WHO FOUND
REFUGE IN A MEDIEVAL TOWN.
>> I FEEL LIKE IT'S MY HOMETOWN.
TRULY.
ALL MY FRIENDS ARE HERE.
EVERYONE IN TOWN KNOWS ME.
I LIKE IT HERE.
>> I'M ALWAYS LOOKING AHEAD.
NOW I'M HAPPY IN RIACE.
RIACE IS TINY.
BUT IT HAS A BIG HEART.
>> >> Sreenivasan: SO FAR IN
2016, CHICAGO IS EXPERIENCING
ITS WORST MURDER RATE IN TWO
DECADES, WITH MORE THAN 140
HOMICIDES RECORDED IN THE FIRST
THREE MONTHS OF THE YEAR.
THE NATION'S THIRD MOST-POPULOUS
CITY IS SADLY ON PACE TO SEE AS
MANY AS 600 MURDERS THIS YEAR.
JOINING ME TO DISCUSS THE
REASONS FOR THIS SURGE IN
VIOLENCE IS "USA TODAY" CHICAGO
CORRESPONDENT, AAMER MADHANI.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
WHAT'S BEHIND THIS, IS IT
BECAUSE YOU HAD THAT MUCH SNOW
AND IT WASN'T THAT BAD A WINTER,
GANG VIOLENCE?
>> I THINK IT'S A FEW THINGS.
THE PRIMARY REASON THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT AND THE MAYOR ARE
ATTRIBUTING THE VIOLENCE TO, THE
PROPENSITY OF ILLEGAL GUNS ON
THE STREET.
POLICE MORALE IS DOWN, YOU
REMEMBER THE LA KWAN MCDONALD
VIDEO, SURED CONFLICT, AND THE
CITY ENTERED INTO AN AGREEMENT
WITH THE ACLU TO BEGIN FILLING
OUT WHAT ARE ESSENTIALLY FORMS
OF EVERY TIME THEY DID A STREET
STOP THROUGH WHAT IS KNOWN AS
STOP AND FRISK STOPS ON THE
STREET, THE ACLU FOUND THEY WERE
DISPROPORTIONATELY TARGETING
MINORITIES.
STOPS WENT DOWN BY ABOUT 90% FOR
THE FIRST THREE MONTHS OF THE
YEAR.
>> Reporter: YOU ALSO HAVE A
NEW POLICE CHIEF.
WHAT'S HE EXPECTED TO DO, WHAT'S
HIS RECORD?
>> WE ACTUALLY HAVE OUR THIRD
POLICE CHIEF IN THREE OR FOUR
MONTHS.
GARY McCARTHY WAS FIRED SOON
AFTER THE LA KWAN MCDONALD VIDEO
CAME OUT.
INTERIM SUPERINTENDENT JOHN
ESCALANTE CAME IN AND MORE
RECENTLY, EDDIE JOHNSON, 27 YEAR
VETERAN OF CHICAGO POLICE
DEPARTMENT, HE GREW UP THE FIRST
NINE YEARS OF HIS LIFE IN THE
CABRINI GREENHOUSING PROJECTS
AND MOVED TO THE SOUTH SIDE
WHERE HE STILL LIVES.
HE IS VERY POPULAR WITH THE
POLICE DEPARTMENT, THEY HOPE
THIS WILL RAISE THE MORALE OF
THE POLICE DEPARTMENT, BUT HE
ALSO IS A BLACK OFFICER, THERE'S
HOPE HE CAN SORT OF BRIDGE THE
GAP IN THIS CITY.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT'S THE
PRESSURE ON RAHM EMANUEL?
>> THERE IS A LOT OF PRESSURE.
HIS APPROVAL RATINGS ARE IN THE
DUMPS.
HE GOT A 27% APPROVAL PUBLISHED
IN FEBRUARY.
THE THING IS HE'S GOT THREE
YEARS BEFORE REELECTION BUT HE'S
GOT BIG PROBLEMS.
HE'S GOT VIOLENCE OF COURSE THAT
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT AND HE'S GOT
THE POLICE DEPARTMENT AND
REENGAGING THE TRUST IN THE
AFRICAN AMERICAN COMMUNITY THAT
IS CRUCIAL FOR HIM WINNING HIS
SECOND TERM.
BUT THEN EVEN IF HE'S ABLE TO
SOLVE ALL THOSE THINGS YOU HAVE
A CITY THAT IS IN ENORMOUS
FISCAL DISASTER RIGHT NOW.
$21 BILLION PUBLIC EMPLOYEES
RETIREMENT DEFENDANT.
>> AAMER MADHANI, THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: ONE OF THE MOST
CRITICALLY ACCLAIMED AMERICAN
SINGER-SONGWRITERS OF THE PAST
TWO DECADES IS LUCINDA WILLIAMS.
SHE'S A HARD-TO-CATEGORIZE
SOUTHERNER WHO TRANSCENDS ANY
ONE STYLE, AND HAS WON GRAMMY
AWARDS FOR ROCK, COUNTRY, AND
FOLK MUSIC.
WILLIAMS IS ALSO A LATE BLOOMER,
IN THAT IT'S TAKEN HER FOUR
DECADES TO ACHIEVE THE
RECOGNITION AND FOLLOWING SHE
HAS TODAY.
THE NEWSHOUR'S PHIL HIRSCHKORN
HAS THIS PROFILE.
>> Reporter: THE SONGS LUCINDA
WILLIAMS WRITES ARE FULL OF RAW
EMOTIONS ABOUT LONGING, LOVE,
AND LOVE LOST.
>> I CHANGED THE LOCK ON MY
FRONT DOOR SO YOU CAN'T SEE ME
ANYMORE.
>> Reporter: AT THIS SOLD OUT,
WEEK-LONG RESIDENCY AT THE
MANHATTAN CLUB "CITY WINERY,"
THE AUDIENCE COULD HEAR HER
RANGE FROM ELECTRIC TO ACOUSTIC,
ROOTED IN BLUES, ROCK, COUNTRY,
AND FOLK.
>> DID AN ANGEL WHISPER IN YOUR
EAR?
>> Reporter: IT'S SIMPLY HARD TO
LABEL YOU.
>> THE VERY THING THAT MADE IT
HARD TO GET A RECORD DEAL NOW
HAS BECOME, YOU KNOW, MY
SIGNATURE SOUND.
Reporter: WILLIAMS HAS BEEN A
CREATIVE ROLL SINCE RELEASING
HER BEST SELLING ALBUM "CAR
WHEELS ON A GRAVEL ROAD," IN
1998.
A COMMERCIAL BREAKTHROUGH IN HER
MID-40'S, IT WON HER A GRAMMY
AWARD AND A WIDER AUDIENCE.
THE ALBUM INCLUDED ONE OF HER
MOST REQUESTED SONGS "JOY."
>> I DON'T WANT YOU ANYMORE'
CAUSE YOU TOOK MY JOY.
I DON'T WANT YOU ANYMORE, YOU
TOOK MY JOY.
YOU TOOK MY JOY, I WANT IT BACK!
>> Reporter: DO THE WORDS
TYPICALLY COME FIRST OR THE
MUSIC?
>> THE WORDS.
SOMETIMES I'LL GET A LITTLE LINE
WITH A LITTLE MELODY THING, YOU
KNOW, THAT'LL POP INTO MY HEAD
AT THE SAME TIME.
MY BRAIN IS ALWAYS GOING.
I MIGHT BE SITTING AT A BAR OR
ANYWHERE I MIGHT BE AND HEAR
SOMETHING SOMEBODY SAYS AND I'LL
JOT IT DOWN A LOT OF TIMES ON A
COCKTAIL NAPKIN AND I SAVE
EVERYTHING.
I PUT IT IN A BIG FOLDER.
>> Reporter: SINCE "CARWHEELS,"
WILLIAMS HAS RECORDED SEVEN MORE
STUDIO ALBUMS, EARNING
CONSISTENT CRITICAL ACCLAIM AND
HEALTHY SALES.
IN 2002, "TIME" MAGAZINE
DECLARED HER THE BEST SONGWRITER
IN AMERICA. THIS YEAR, "ROLLING
STONE" GAVE FOUR STARS, FOR
"EXCELLENT," TO HER NEW ALBUM,
"GHOSTS OF HIGHWAY 20."
>> FARMS AND TRUCK STOPS AND
FIREWORK STANDS, I KNOW THIS
ROAD LIKE THE BACK OF MY HAND.
>> Reporter: HIGHWAY 20 IS THE
MAIN DRAG THROUGH THE DEEP SOUTH
WHERE WILLIAMS SPENT HER
CHILDHOOD AND FORMATIVE YEARS.
>> FROM ATLANTA, GEORGIA, TO
BIRMINGHAM, ALABAMA, ONTO
JACKSON, MISSISSIPPI AND TO
MONROE, LOUISIANA, AND BEYOND.
Reporter: AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL
SONGS, CHERISHING MEMORIES AND
EXORCISING DEMONS.
THAT WILL WANDER WITH THE GHOST
OF HIGHWAY 20.
>> Reporter: IS THE SONGWRITING
THERAPEUTIC FOR YOU?
>> OH YEAH.
IT'S A LIFE FORCE, YOU KNOW,
THAT DRIVES ME.
IT'S CATHARTIC.
>> Reporter: IF I TOOK ALL YOUR
SONGS AND THREW THE LYRICS INTO
A WORD CLOUD, I'D PROBABLY GET
TOP HITS FOR ' PAIN,'
' TEARS,''
BLUE,' ' BLUES. WORDS LIKE THAT.
>> I HAVE PLENTY TO WRITE ABOUT.
I'M CARRYING AROUND A LOT OF
BAGGAGE, YOU KNOW, FROM MY
CHILDHOOD.
I LOOK AT IT LIKE HERE'S A WELL,
YOU KNOW.
ALL I HAVE TO DO IS DIP MY HAND
IN AND PULL SOMETHING.
THERE'S A SADNESS SO DEEP THE
SUN SEEMS BLACK.
>> Reporter: MANY OF HER LYRICS
ARE POETIC, A GIFT SHE MAY HAVE
INHERITED FROM HER FATHER,
MILLER WILLIAMS, A PROLIFIC POET
WHO READ AT BILL CLINTON'S
SECOND INAUGURATION.
SHE USED TO RUN LYRICS BY HIM,
AND SINCE HE DIED LAST YEAR, A
FEW OF HIS LINES HAVE INSPIRED
HER SONGS, LIKE "DUST."
>> YOU COULDN'T CRY IF YOU
WANTED TO.
EVEN YOUR THOUGHTS ARE DUST.
>> IT TOOK ME YEARS TO LEARN HOW
TO KIND OF RELAX MORE ON STAGE
AND ENGAGE THE AUDIENCE.
IT TAKES A TOLL, JUST THE
TRAVELING PART, BUT YOU KNOW I'D
RATHER BE DOING THIS THAN
WORKING AT WAL-MART.
>> Reporter: WILLIAMS SAYS
SUCCESS IN THE MUSIC INDUSTRY IS
50 % TALENT AND 50 % DRIVE, AND
THAT SHE'S GOT A LOT OF DRIVE
TOURING WITH NEW MATERIAL AT AGE
63.
>> BOB DYLAN WAS WRITING AMAZING
SONGS WHEN HE WAS 18 OR 19.
SO WAS HANK WILLIAMS, BUT I
WASN'T.
I REMEMBER MY FATHER SAID ONE
TIME IN THE WORLD OF POETS
NOBODY TAKES YOU SERIOUSLY UNTIL
YOU'RE IN YOUR 60s.
>> MAYBE IN SLIDELL, I WILL FIND
MY JOY!
MAYBE IN SLIDELL I WILL FIND MY
JOY!
>>THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND,
SUNDAY.
>> Sreenivasan: IN FARGO, NORTH
DAKOTA, REPUBLICANS COMPLETE
THEIR STATE CONVENTION TODAY BY
CHOOSING 28 DELEGATES FOR THE
NATIONAL CONVENTION IN JULY.
THAT'S JUST ONE PERCENT OF THE
TOTAL DELEGATES, BUT THE
PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGNS ARE
COMPETING HARD FOR THEM.
THE NEWSHOUR'S DAN BUSH IS IN
FARGO AND JOINS ME VIA SKYPE.
IS A STATE YOU POINTED OUT IN
YOUR BLOG THAT'S VOTED
REPUBLICAN TEN TIMES IN THE
PAST.
SUDDENLY THEY'RE RELEVANT WHY?
>> ALL OF NORTH DAKOTA'S 28
DELEGATES ARE UNBOUND.
WHICH MEANS THEY CAN VOTE FOR
WHOEVER THEY LIKE, AT THE
REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTION
WITH THE POTENTIAL FLOOR FIGHT
THERE, ALL REPUBLICANS ARE
SENDING THEIR DELEGATES, PROVIDE
THE DELEGATES SHOULD BACK THEN
EARLIER IN THE SUMMER.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT IS THE
CLOSING ARGUMENT THAT TED CRUZ
MADE AND THE SUR GAT BEN CARSON
MADE?
>> IF THE REPUBLICAN PARTY
NOMINATES DONALD TRUMP, ENTERING
AN ELECTION PUTTING CLINTON ON A
SILVER PLATTER.
FOUND CHANCE TO MEET WITH HIM
SEVERAL TIMES AND THAT HE IS THE
BEST PERSON TO LEAD THE COUNTRY
ECONOMICALLY IN OUR NATIONAL
SECURITY AS WELL.
>> Sreenivasan: THE PEOPLE
THAT YOU'VE TALKED TO IN NORTH
DAKOTA THE ONES BEHIND YOU
ATLANTIC MAKING THIS DECISION
THEY DON'T HAVE TO DECLARE
WHETHER THEY ARE GOING TO OWNER
GOES TO THE NATIONAL CONVENTION
FOR CRUZ OR KASICH OR TRUMP,
RIGHT?
>> THE DELEGATES TO THIS
CONVENTION HERE REQUESTED THAT
ALL THE NATIONAL DELEGATES COME
OUT AND SAY AHEAD OF TIME,
DETERMINED THAT WOULD NOT HAPPEN
SO THE DELEGATES THAT GET
ELECTED HERE TODAY NOT HAVE TO
SAY WHO THEY ARE GOING TO
SUPPORT IN CLEVELAND LATER THIS
YEAR.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT, DAN
BUSH THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: AND FINALLY THIS
AFTERNOON NEWSROOMS AROUND THE
WORLD BEGAN PUBLISHING THE
PANAMA PAPERS, HOW OFFSHORE
COMPANIES AND BANKS MOVE FUNDS
ALLEGEDLY TO EVADE TAXES, RUN
WARS, AND PROTECT THE WEALTHY.
THE STORY IS BASED ON MILLIONS
OF LEAKED DOCUMENTS, BASED ON A
PANAMANIAN LAW FIRM, MOSSACK
FONSECA.
THE FIRM SAYS ITS CONDUCT IS
"BEYOND REPROACH" AND IT'S
NEVER BEEN ACCUSED OF CRIMINAL
WRONGDOING.
WE INTERVIEWED THE HEAD OF THE
INTERNATIONAL CONSORTIUM OF
INVESTIGATIVE JOURNALISTS.
SEE IT ONLINE AT
PBS.ORG/NEWSHOUR.
TOMORROW, REPORT FROM WISCONSIN
BEFORE TUESDAY'S PRESIDENTIAL
PRIMARIES THERE.
THAT'S ALL FOR THIS
EDITION OF PBS NewsHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN, HAVE A
GOOD NIGHT.